Introducing a document describing the event detection process (PPTT-3… (#907)
PiwikPRO/PPMS-PublicDocs: data_collection/processing/event_type_detection.rst

- PageView
- Outlink
- Download
- Search
- Custom
- ContentImpression
- ContentInteraction
- GoalConversion
- OrderCompleted
- AbandonedCart
- SharePoint
- ConsentFormImpression
- ConsentFormClick
- ConsentDecision
- CustomPing
- CartUpdated
- BrokenEvent
- ExcludedEvent
- Heartbeat
- Deanonymization
- PagePerformance

Detection order
-----------------

This section describes the order of the event type detection. Process is satisfied with the first match, after that it stops and no further matching is performed.

Conversion
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

First step in the event type detection process is a check for conversion signs in the tracked event.
If your tracked event had an `idgoal` parameter with the ID value other than `0` then it will be marked as `GoalConversion` type.

Ping
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Then the `ping` parameter is analyzed. Depending on it's value one of the following ping types will be assigned:

- values `1`, `2` and `3` result in `Heartbeat` ping type
- value of `4` results in `Deanonymization` ping type
- value of `5` results in `PagePerformance` ping type
- value of `6` results in `CustomPing` ping type

> Values outside of that range will cause an error which results in broken event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Values outside of that range will cause an error which results in BrokenEvent.
```

Order completed
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Event will be categorized as `OrderCompleted` when `idgoal` parameter of the tracked event is equal to `0` but also `ec_id` parameter is provided.

Site search
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Event will be categorized as `Search` when either `search`parameter of the tracked event is provided or a search term was detected in the tracked url (provided as the `url` parameter).

Page view
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When every other detection step failed then your event will be categoried as a simple `PageView`.

Special cases
-----------------

As you have probly noticed already, there are 3 event types missing in the detection process steps.

- AbandonedCart
- ExcludedEvent
- BrokenEvent

That is because those type are not "detected" but rather are a result of the post-processing of an event or a session.

Abandoned Cart
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When a session did not track a `OrderCompleted` event, the last event of that type will be converted to `AbandonedCart`.

Excluded Event
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

There are several ways of excluding an event (e.g. by blacklisting source IP or User-Agent header matching).

> If an event matches given criteria it will be excluded from the reports but is still tracked and receives `ExcludedEvent` type.

Reviewer: It is also worth to mention that ExcludedEvents are visible in Tracker Debugger.

.. _data-collection-processing-event-type-detection:

Event type detection
=================

Available event types
-----------------

Analyzing various properties of the tracked event we recognize one of the following types:

- PageView
- Outlink
- Download
- Search
- Custom
- ContentImpression
- ContentInteraction
- GoalConversion
- OrderCompleted
- AbandonedCart
- SharePoint
- ConsentFormImpression
- ConsentFormClick
- ConsentDecision
- CustomPing
- CartUpdated
- BrokenEvent
- ExcludedEvent
- Heartbeat
- Deanonymization
- PagePerformance

Detection order
-----------------

This section describes the order of the event type detection. Process is satisfied with the first match, after that it stops and no further matching is performed.

Conversion
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

First step in the event type detection process is a check for conversion signs in the tracked event.
If your tracked event had an `idgoal` parameter with the ID value other than `0` then it will be marked as `GoalConversion` type.

Ping
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Then the `ping` parameter is analyzed. Depending on it's value one of the following ping types will be assigned:

> - values `1`, `2` and `3` result in `Heartbeat` ping type

Reviewer 2: Looks good, but quotes using single "`" character in RST format are formatted as _italic_, if you want to use `code` format they should be double "``" character quotes.

Example:
```
... result in ``Heartbeat`` ping type
```

Here's a [preview](https://developers.piwik.pro/en/pptt-3647_change_event_detection_order/data_collection/processing/event_type_detection.html) of this branch.

Author: I was aiming at any kind of emphasis, italics looked good enough but indeed code styling looks better. I just thought that there's something wrong with the formatting and the code block just looks like a italic block :)
Thx for the tip.
